Group Screening Test, Grade 7
Read each selection silently. Then read the questions that follow and write the letter of the
correct answer in the answer sheet:
A.

Telling Time

Humans have used different objects to tell time. In the beginning, they used an
hourglass. This is a cylindrical glass with a narrow center which allows sand to flow from
its upper to its lower portion. Once all the sand has trickled to the lower portion, one
knows that an hour has passed. Using the same idea, water clocks were constructed to
measure time by having water flow through a narrow passage from one container to
another. On the other hand, sundials allowed people to estimate an hour by looking at
the position of the shadow cast by the sun on a plate. At night, people measured time by
checking the alignment of the stars in the sky. None of these were accurate, though.
The clock was the first
accurate instrument for telling time.

134 words

1. Which of the following ways of telling time made use of sand? (Literal)
a. water clocks
b. hourglass
c. sundials
d. clock
2. None of the clocks used long ago were accurate. Accurate in the sentence means
(Inferential)
a. free from error
b. comparable
c. very useful
d. efficient
3. When men of long ago told time at night, they looked at the
________ to tell the time. (Literal)
a. cloud formation
b. moon
c. stars
d. sun
4. The sundials may not be useful in telling time ----- · (Inferential)
a. at noontime
c. during a rainy day
b. in the morning
d. when the sun shines brightly
5. How are the hourglass and the water clock similar? (Inferential)
a. Both tell time by the hour.
b. Both use water to tell time.
c. Both are used only in the daytime.
d. Both have a narrow center through which something flows.
6. The best title of the selection is. (Critical)
a. The Uses of Clocks
b. Why People Need to Tell Time
c. Ways of Telling Time:
Then and Now
d. Comparing the Different Types of Clocks

7. Which of these sentences is a topic sentence? (Critical)
a. The invention of the clock 600 years ago was the first
accurate measurement of time.
b. Hourglass contained sand that fell through one container to another.
c. Long ago people used simple tools such as the hour glass.
d. Humans have used different objects to tell the time.
8. When the day was divided into twenty-four hours, what numbers were
used to express time? (Literal)
a. one to six b. one to twelve c. one to thirty-six d. one to twenty
four 9. Having one number to express time twice caused confusion. In this
selection
confusion may mean
. (Inferential)
a. differences
b. discussions
c. problems
d. mistakes
Counting the Hours
When men decided to divide the day into twenty-four hours, they
used numbers one through twelve two times. As a result, there was one
o'clock during the day and another one o'clock after midnight. This created
confusion. If one was told to submit a project at six o'clock, did this mean
six o'clock in the morning or at night?
The Romans provided a solution to this problem. They thought that
noon time, the time when the sun is at its apex, is an important time. They
called noon Meridies and measured time by this. They called the morning
ante meridiem, which means "before noon" while "after noon" was called
post meridiem. Ante meridiem was shortened to A.M. while post meridiem
was
shortened to P.M.

124 words

10. The Romans thought of a solution. This means that they
provided ----------- ·(Inferential)
a. an answer to the problem
c. a new set of numbers
b. a better interpretation
d. another clock
11. Meridies means
. (Literal)
a. apex
b. noon
c. before
d. daylight

,,

12. The early Romans used the position of the sun to tell the time. When
the sun was at its apex, it was noon. What does apex mean?
c. farthest point d. nearest
a. highest point b. lowest point
point

13. Another good title for this selection
is
1

.
(Critical)

a. Why There Are Twenty-Four Hours in a Day.
b. Why Noontime is important to Romans
c. How the Romans Told Time
d. The Meaning of A.M. and P.M.

b. Nosebleeds
Having a nosebleed is a common occurrence. Children experience epistaxis
when blood flows out from either or both nostrils, often for a short period
of time. It may be caused by one's behavior like frequent nose picking or
blowing too hard when one has a cold. It may also be caused by certain
physical factors such as an allergy or abnormal growths in the nasal cavity.
Or it may be due to environmental conditions such as exposure to toxic
fumes or dryness of the air. While it is often thought that holding one's
head back can treat a nosebleed, this can actually cause one to choke or
vomit. The best thing to do is to lean forward, pinch the top of the nose
and apply a cold compress. And if that doesn't work, it's best to get
professional help.
14. When children experience epistaxis, we can observe that there is_.
(Literal) a. a steady flow of nasal discharge c. build up of mucus in our
nasal cavity
blood flow from the nasal passage d. blood stoppage in the nostrils
15. When an experience is described as a common occurrence it is
_____. (Inferential)
a. an incident that is disappointing c. an event that is no longer
surprising
b. an episode that is quite alarming d. an occasion that is overwhelming
16. Which of these options help treat a nosebleed?
(Literal) a. applying a cold compress on the nose
b. pinching the nostrils shut
c. holding the head back to keep the blood from
flowing d. applying a warm compress on the nose
17. Which of these causes of a nosebleed are within our control? (Inferential)
a. allergies
c. dryness in the air
b. picking one's nose

d. abnormal growth in the nasal cavity

18. Which of these factors that cause nosebleeds are directly within our
control? (Inferential)
a. physical factors

c. behavioral factors

b. environmental factors
d. social factors
19. This selection is mainly providing (Critical)
a. a description of a nosebleed.
b. the causes and effects of a nosebleed.
c. an explanation of what to do when one has a nosebleed.

,.

d. a listing of the myths regarding treatment of a nosebleed.
20. Another good title for this selection is
. (Critical)
a. Nosebleeds: A Cause for Concern
b. Nosebleeds: An Unavoidable Experience
c. Nosebleeds: A Common Childhood Experience
d. Nosebleeds: Common Myths and Misconceptions
3

Pre Test, Grade 7
A.
DARK CHOCOLATE
Dark chocolate finds its way into the best ice creams, biscuits and
cakes. Although eating chocolate usually comes with a warning that it is
fattening, it is also believed by some to have magical and medicinal effects.
In fact, cacao trees are sometimes called Theobroma cacao which means
"food of the gods." Dark chocolate has been found out to be helpful in
small quantities. One of its benefits is that it has some of the most
important minerals and vitamins that people need. It has antioxidants that
help protect the heart. Another important benefit is that the fat content
of chocolate does not raise the level of cholesterol in the blood stream. A
third benefit is that it helps address respiratory problems. Also, it has
been found out to help ease coughs and respiratory concerns. finally,
chocolate increases serotonin levels in the brain. This is what gives us a
feeling of well-being.
Reference: Schnoll, R. (2012). Choocolate: Food for the Gods, Retrieved
from
http://academic.brooklyn.cuny.edu/health/rschnoll/contact/documents/ch
ocola tefacultycircle.
1. Why was chocolate called Theobroma cacao? It is considered to be ___
a. fattening food
c. medicinal candy
b. magical tree
d. food of the gods
2. Which statement is true?
a. All chocolates have medicinal properties.
b. In small doses, dark chocolate is fattening.
c. Dark chocolate has minerals and vitamins.
d. Chocolate raises the level of cholesterol.
3. What is found in dark chocolate that will help encourage its consumption?
a. antioxidants
b. sugar
c. fats
d. milk
4. After we eat chocolate, which of these is responsible for making us
feel good?
a. cacao
b. theobroma
c. serotonin
d. antioxidants
5. If a person coughs and is asked to have some chocolate, why would
this be good advice?
a. Dark chocolate helps respiratory problems.

b. Dark chocolate helps circulation.
c. Dark chocolate does not raise the level of
cholesterol. d. Dark chocolate has vitamins and
minerals.
4

,,
6. Which of the following body systems does not directly benefit
from the consumption of dark chocolate?
a. Circulatory system
c. Excretory system
b. Respiratory system
d. Nervous system
7. Which important fact shows that dark chocolate may be safe for the heart?
a. It may ease coughs.
b. It helps address respiratory problems.
c. It does not raise the level of cholesterol.
d. In small quantities, dark chocolate has been said to be medicinal.
8. What does "address" mean in the second paragraph?
a. to locate
b. to identify
c. to deal with
d. to recognize
B.
SNEEZING
Sneezing happens when our body is trying to remove an irritation
found inside the nose. A special name for this process is sternutation. How
does a sneeze happen? When your nose is tickled, the sneeze center in our
brain receives a message. Soon, the other parts of the body that work
together to create a sneeze such as the abdominal muscles, chest muscles,
the diaphragm, the muscles of the vocal chords, the back of the throat,
and the eyelids receive this message. An explosion as fast as 161
kilometers per hour sends the irritant speeding out of your nose. Examples
of irritants in the air are dust, pepper, or allergens such as pollen. Some
experience having a photic reflex and sneeze as soon as they are under
the bright sun. Now, if it ever happens that a sneeze of yours gets stuck,
look towards a bright light to unstick your stuck sneeze.
Reference: http://kidshealth.org/kid/talk/qa/sneeze.html
1. What is sternutation?
a. the voluntary process of expelling dirt and dust from inside our nose
b. the involuntary process of removing an irritation inside the
nose c. a person's natural reaction to bright light
d. an explosion of allergens
2. Sneezing happens -------------a. to release energy
c. to remove nose hair
b. to expel an irritant
d. in response to a cough
3. Which of the following is NOT an example of an allergic reaction?
a. sneezing in a dusty room
c. photic reflex from sun exposure

b. pepper-induced sternutation
d. Sneezing when exposed to pollen
4. Which of the following does NOT help to create a sneeze?
a. abdominal muscles b. chest muscles c. nasal passages d. voice box
5

5. Which is the best advice to follow to unstick a sneeze?
a. look towards a bright light
c. blow one's nose
b. tickle our nostrils
d. cough out loud
6. Why must we cover our nose when we sneeze?
a. to prevent the further intake of pepper powder
b. to prevent the allergens from multiplying
c. to prevent irritants from spreading
d. to prevent ourselves from sneezing
7. Which of the following is the best thing to do if you feel a sneeze coming
along?
a. Take cold medicine.
c. Move away from others.
d. Open a window that faces a
b. Have a body check-up.
garden.
8. The main idea of this selection is -------a. the different kinds of
sneeze
c. the cure for sneezing
b. how sneezing happens
d. the origin of sneezing
C.
DUST
No matter how often we sweep the floor of our homes, we are still
able to gather together a considerable amount of dust. Dust is all around
us. It gathers on bookshelves, on furniture - old or new. These particles
rest on any still object - undisturbed until touched or wiped clean. Dust,
which was first believed to be made of dead skin has been found to be a
mix of different things. Some of the common ingredients of dust particles
include animal fur, dead insects, food, fiber from clothes, beddings, soil
and other chemicals. Although most of household dust comes from the
outside through doors, windows and shoes, other dust particles come from
within. Scientists have discovered that the mix of dust from each
household actually depends on four things: the climate, the age of the
house, the number of persons who live in it and their individual cooking,
cleaning and smoking habits. Making our homes free of dust may not be
possible but lessening the amount of dust that we keep in our homes will
help avoid possible allergies and allow us to breathe well.
1. Which of the following is NOT true about dust?
a. Dust causes allergies.
b. Dust is made of dead skin only.
c. Dust comes from both within the home and outside of it.
d. The amount of dust in the house may depend on the climate.

2. Knowing the contents of the dust in our homes will determine ____
a. how dust can be cleaned up
b. where the dust is coming from
c. what one might add to one's home
d. the lifestyle of the
occupants

6

3. Among the sources of dust, which is NOT within one's control?
a. the personal habits of family members
b. the number of persons in the home
c. the age of the house
d. the climate
4. What is the greatest risk that one faces in having a dusty house? A dusty
house might ---- ·
a. cause the incidence of allergies
b. be a reason for accidents in the house
c. increase the temperature of the
environment d. result in the early destruction
of the furniture
5. Knowing the composition of dust will especially help persons with ____
a. motor difficulties
c. circulatory concerns
b. physical disabilities
d. respiratory problems
6. In this selection, the word "habits" refers to ____
a. one's unusual behavior
b. being addicted to something
c. the work one occasionally performs
d. the manner by which one repeatedly does a task
7. How did the writer develop this selection about dust?
a. by giving examples
b. by narrating some events
c. by stating the cause and effect
d. by identifying the problem and the solutions
8. Which is an appropriate title of this selection?
a. Keeping the Houses Dust-free
b. Sources of Dust in Our Homes
c. Effects of Dusty Homes
d. Diseases Due to Dust
l>.
PAIN
How do we sense pain? The human body has nociceptors to receive an
electrical impulse that is sent to part of the brain that recognizes pain.
Memories of these sensations are formed to help us avoid painful objects
and experiences and prevents us from repeating past mistakes that may
have hurt us in some way. But pain is more complex. It is not only a physical
experience but an emotional and psychological one as well. When all of
these come together, it is called suffering. The mind is not alone in
recognizing pain. The nervous system is also able to store such

information. Even when a person loses a finger or a limb, the pain that was
once felt may become a chronic one - one that keeps recurring. The best
way to avoid this is to prevent pain memories
7

from forming. The use of anesthesia prevents the mind from creating
these memories. Drugs that prevent pain such as analgesics help lessen the
pain sensed.
1. What are 11 nociceptors?11
a. electrical impulses
c. nerve receptors
b. memories of pain
d. sensations of pain
2. How do memories of pain help us?
a. These constantly remind us of what hurts.
b. These help dull the senses.
c. These help us re-experience the pain.
d. These inform us on what to watch out for.
3. Suffering is the complex mix of --------a. physical, mental and spiritual experiences
b. physical, psychological and social influences
c. physical, sociological and cognitive factors
d. physical, emotional and psychological experiences
4. Which of the following is an example of how memories of pain help us?
a. A baby crying at the sight of the needle
b. Drinking a pain killer once a headache starts
c. Asking if a dental procedure will hurt
d. We relive these experiences through our dreams
5. Which is an example of helping the body avoid the creation of
memories for pain?
a. Avoiding the use of anesthesia
b. Drinking a painkiller once a headache starts
c. Talking about a painful experience with a friend
d. Being given an anesthetic before a dental procedure
6. In the selection, how was the word 'chronic' used in the phrase
"chronic pain?"
a. continuous
b. in-born c. throbbing
d. worsening
7. Which of the following adjectives best describes our memories'
role in managing pain?
a. curative b. corrective
c. preventive
d. restorative
8. In the selection, what does it mean to 'sense pain'?
a. create pain
c. remember pain
b. recognize pain
d. understand pain

8

Group Screening Test, Grade 8
Read each selection silently. Then read the questions that follow and
write the letter of the correct answer in the answer sheet:
A.
A WOMANOFWEALTH
In the nineteeth century, there lived in Manila a very wealthy woman
named Dona Margarita Roxas de Ayala. With her wealth, she could have
lived a peaceful life at home where everything she wished was obeyed by
her family.
But she felt sorry for the low position of womanhood in her country.
Women lacked education, so she urged the authorities to establish a school
for girls. She would, donate the land, the school building and help maintain
the school financially.
Finally, sisters of a religious order arrived in Manila and accepted
Dona Margarita's offer. The Colegio de la Concordia was thus established
in 1868. Since then, women have taken up teaching and other courses. 114
words
1. This story happened in the
a. 17th century

b. 18th century

2. Magarita Roxas de Ayala is a
a. poor

b. wealthy
a wealthy
life.

3. She could
a. not afford

b. well afford

c. 19th century

d. 20th
century

class woman.
c. medium

d. ·upper

d. can't
c. hardly afford afford

4. At home, she was
a. happy
5. She

c. obeyed by her
b. lonely
family
the position of womanhood in her
country.

a. admired
b. felt sorry for
6. At that time, women lacked

c. congratulated
d. pitied

d. intelligent

a. money
b. wealth
c. education
7. She urged the authorities to establish ___ for girls.

d.food

a. hospitals
b. schools
c. prisons
8. She would help ___ the school financially.

d. market

a.run

b. organize

c. maintain
9

d. ruin

B.
A traveler once lost his way in a desert. The sun was so hot and he
was very thirsty. He was very tired and hungry.
Soon he came to an oasis. An oasis is a low fertile place in the desert
where there is water.
"Water, at last!" the weary traveler exclaimed. "I guess I'm just too
lucky."
As the traveler came to the water, he saw lying upon the bank a sack
half-filled with something. "Oh God, he said as he knelt beside the sack
opening it with both hands." May there be some fruits or coconuts inside so
that I may have something to eat as well a water to drink." With this
thought, he got his knife and hurriedly cut open the sack. When he saw
what was inside the sack, he said in a sad, disappointed way, "Poor me!
These are diamonds only."
148 words
9. Where was the traveler?
a. in a desert

c. in a field
d. in a
b. in a forest
beach
10. What did the traveler see inside the sack?
a. fruits
c. water
b. diamonds
d.food
11. What is implied in this story?
a. Priority of man depends upon his needs.

,,

b. Fruits are nonexistent in a
desert. c. Fools cannot appreciate
diamonds.
d. Diamonds are of less value in a desert.
12. Which is the most appropriate title for this passage?
a. Diamonds Only
c. Tired and Thirsty Traveler
b. Lost in a Desert
d. An Oasis
13. What is the author's purpose in writing this
text? a. to give information about oasis
b. to show that one's priority changes
c. to describe life in a desert

d. to present the value of diamonds
14. If you were the traveler, would you choose diamonds over water in spite
of being thirsty and tired in the middle of a desert? Why?
a. Yes. I could be rich after selling the diamonds.
10

b. Yes. My thirst and tiredness might be off after seeing the sack
half-filled
with diamonds.
c. No. I might be robbed and killed on my way home because of the
diamonds.
d. No. I can survive without diamonds but I can't live without water.
C.
In the field one summer's day, a Grasshopper was hopping about,
chirping and singing to it's heart content. An ant passed by, bearing along
with great toil an ear of corn he was taking to the nest.
"Why not come and chat with me," said the Grasshopper,
"instead of toiling and moiling in the way?"
"I am helping to lay up food for the rainy season," said the Ant,
"and recommend you to do the same."
·why bother about rainy season?" Said the Grasshopper; ·we have
got plenty of food at present." But the ant went on its way and
continued its toil.
When the rainy season came the Grasshopper had no food and found
itself dying of hunger while it saw the ants distributing everyday corn and
grain from the stores they had collected in the summer. Then the
Grasshopper knew: it is best to prepare for days of need.
15. What did the ant do in the first paragraph?
a. Ant asked the Grasshopper in carrying an ear of corn to the nest.
b. Ant was taking an ear of corn to the nest
c. Ant joined Grasshopper hopping, chirping and singing in the field.
d. Ant stopped carrying an ear of corn.
16. Which best expresses the main idea of the first paragraph?
a. Ant is carrying a big kernel of corn to its nest.
b. Ant is busy storing food while Grasshopper is busy playing.

c. Grasshopper hops, chirps and sings in the field.
d. Ant walks away from Grasshopper

11

17. Based on the story, which of the following could NOT happen?
a. Grasshopper begs Ant for a small bit of food.
b. Ant feels sorry for Grasshopper and gives him food.
c. Grasshopper finds lots of foods in the field during rainy season.
d. Grasshopper gets weaker with out any food.
18. Which of the following is the best title of the selection?
a. The Ant and the Grasshopper
b. The foolish Grasshopper
c. The Hardworking Ant
d. Summer and Rainy Season
19. What is the purpose of the author in writing the passage?
a. To compare the Ant and the Grasshopper
b. to describe summer and rainy season
c. to teach the value of preparing food for future needs
d. to tell that all work and no play makes life boring.
20. If you were the ant and in case the Grasshopper asks for food, what
would you tell him to show your kindness?
a. Die of hunger
b. He who does not work neither shall he eat
c. Go and play
d. Take this food but next time work for it.

12

Group Screening Test, Grade 9

Read each selection silently. Then read the questions that follow and
write the letter of the correct answer in the answer sheet:
A.
One afternoon when all his classmates were in the gymnasium for
their practicum, Juanito was caught stealing a cellphone by his adviser
Mr. Cabico.
Mr. Cabico looked seriously as the skinny boy, wearing worn-out
clothes and outmodeld shoes. He decided not to bring him in the
guidance office nor inform his parents about his misconduct.
"I'm sorry, sir. I promise not to do it again. Please don't bring me
to the police station,"Juanito pleaded.
Mr. Cabico didn't interrogate the boy; however he held him tightly
in his forearm while they were heading toward his home near the school.
"What do you want to eat?" asked Mr. Cabico.
"I'm not hungry. Just let me go," replied Juanita.
Mr. Cabico entered his room and gave Juanita some of his t-shirts
and jeans. Then, he showed their family picture. He told him that his
parents died in an accident when he was thirteen years old. He also
recounted how he ma_naged his time as a boy helper and working student
until he became a teacher.
Seeing an indication of enlightenment in the boy's eyes, Mr.
Cabico allowed the boy to go home.
"Take this and buy a new pair of shoes,"said Mr. Cabico handing in P
1,000.00
"Thank you, sir," said Juanita as he shut the door and walked away
with a grateful heart that he had met a man who changed him for food.
234rds
1.What misconduct was done by Juanita?

a. He was stealing a cellphone.
b. He was cheating in their exam.
13

c. He was bullying his classmate during their practicum
d. He was sleeping in the class
2. What led Juanito in stealing the cellphone of his adviser?
a. poverty

c. peer pressure

b. drug abuse

d. kleptomania

3. How did Mr. Cabico changed Juanito for good?
a. by giving him t-shirts,jeans and P 1,000.
b. by not surrendering him to the police

c. by inspiring him with his story of hardship and success
d. by bringing himin the guidance office with his parents
4. If you see a little boy who is stealing, which of the following should you
do?
a. help him in stealing.
b. stop him, ask him why he is stealing and give him good
counsel. c. reprimand him in front of many people.
d. beat him and send him to the police station
5. Which of the following is not learned from the
story? a. Have hope even in difficult times of our
lives.
b. Understand other's life
challenges. c. Enjoy a good life by
doing evil deeds
d. Attain success through determination and hardwork.
B.
There was once a rich, wise father who became very sickly because
there was always trouble in his family. His sons were always quarreling
among themselves. He loves his family so well that he tried to unite his

sons with words of good counsel. His efforts to unite them were in vain. He
was so sad that his sickness got worse. One day, when he was at the point
of death, he called his sons to his room. Before him lay a bundle of sticks
which he had tied together.
14

He commanded his sons to take turns in breaking the bundle into two.
No one was able to break it. Then he asked one of his sons to disunite the
bundle.
"Now break the sticks one by one," the father commanded.
The sons broke every stick with ease.
After all the sticks were broken, the father said, "This is a lesson
to you. As long as you remain united nobody can destroy you or do you harm
but when you quarrel with each other and separate, you will be weak. Your
enemies will defeat you easily."
186 words
6. The family troubles made the father ------a. wise

c. rich

b. sick

d. old

7. What happened after the bundle of sticks was disunited?
a. The sons easily broke each stick apart.
b. The sons strained to break the sticks but they failed.
c. The sons quickly tied the sticks back together.
d. The sons gave the sticks to their father.
8. How did the father unite his family?
a. by giving them words of good counsel
b. by giving them their inheritances
c. by using the bundle of sticks in teaching them unity
d. by whipping them with the bundle of sticks
9. What message does the author want to convey?
a. Life is too short to waste in hating each other.
b. Unity is strength.
c. Envy is a waste of time.
d. Family is important.
10. Which is the most appropriate title for this story?
a. The Bundle of Sticks
b. The Quarrelsome Sons
c. The Sick Father and his Clashing Sons
d. The Wise Father

15

11. If there is disagreement in your family, which of the following should
you avoid?
a. Respect the opinions/viewpoints of family members.
b. Explain your side especially when you feel very
angry. c. Listen to what they are saying and what
they mean.
d. Work out a solution together.
12. If you were in the shoes of the father, how would you stop your sons
from quarrelling?
a. I would force them to move out of the house.
b. I would try to settle their dispute.
c. I would not give them their inheritance.
d. I would leave them.

C.

WATER FOR THE PEOPLE
Water is inexhaustible. It keeps evaporating from the oceans and falls on

land as rain. Rain water is gathered by rivers and flows back to the oceans.
Some sink below the surface and form underground streams.
There is a great deal of water on earth. Yet water is not always available
in places where it is needed. Sometimes plenty of water is obtainable, ~ut it is
not safe for human use because it may contain impurities and disease-carrying
bacteria.
To conserve water and make it easily accessible for human use, artificial
reservoirs are constructed. Many large cities have a water supply coming from
hundreds of kilometres away.

..

The system is provided with a series of storage dams and
reservoirs where water is gathered and treated to make it safe for household
use.

16

Many small communities get their water from shallow wells. Others
depend upon deep wells called artesian wells. Water from artesian wells is
safer
162
words

to use than water from shallow wells.
13.On earth, water
a. is scarce.

c. abounds.

b. hard to get

d. is salty.

14.Water goes up the air in a process called
a. condensation

c. evaporation

b. distillation

d. precipitation

15.Then it goes back to earth as
a. clouds

c. fog

b. rain

d. snow

16.Water that sinks below the surface of the earth is called
a. pure water

c.undergroundwater

b. water table

d. sea water

17.Water can be unfit for human beings if it has
a.oxygen

c. harmful bacteria

b. minerals

d. carbon dioxide

18.The government reserves water for our use in man-made
a. containers

c. tanks

b. reservoirs

d. drums

19. The water from our faucets can come from
a. the nearest river

c. another country

b. hundreds of kilometres away

d. water dams

20. Some communities make use of water that is not quite safe taken from
a. canals

c. the rain

b. shallow wells

d. salt water

17

Group Screening Test, Grade 10
Read each selection silently. Then read the questions that follow and
write the letter of the correct answer in the answer sheet:
A.
MAGICIAN INVENTS SPECIAL EFFECTS
George M'elies, a French movie maker and a former magician
happened to invent special effects in movies by accident. He was filming a
street scene in Paris when his camera suddenly jammed as a bus was passing
by. He stopped, fixed his camera, then went back to filming the same
street scene again. When the film was developed, he was surprised to see a
carriage in the place where the bus had been! He discovered that the bus
had changed into a carriage! From that day on, Mr. M'elies invented many
amazing techniques using his camera. He became known as •the magician of
movies".
A common special effect he invented is called projections. In this
effect, a moviemaker projects a picture or a movie on a screen behind the
actors. The actors act in front of the screen. Then the camera films the
actors and the picture or the movie at the same time. This effect makes it
possible for actors to look like they are in imaginary places.
Other special effects Mr. M'elies created are: animation which
makes lifeless models or objects come to life when they are shown on
screen; matte shots enabling the moviemaker to cover or matte out part of
a film that he doesn't want; and optical printer and computer-age special
effects.
217 words
1. Who became known as the Magician of Movies?
a. George Bush

c. George M'elies

b. George Clooney

d. George Smith

18

2. How did Mr. M'elies invent the special effects?
a. by accident

c. by asking people
d. through a magic
b. through experiment
show
What gadget is he using when he discovered the special
3. effects?
a. television

c. radio

b. computer

d. camera

4. Which of the following was not invented by M'elies?
a. Animation

c. Matte Shots

b. Projection

d. Still Life

5. What special effect makes it possible for actors to look like they
are in imaginary places?
a. Projection

c. Computer-age special effect

b. Optical Printer

d. Matte Shots

6. What kind of special effect would be used to bring a dinosaur back to life?
a. Matte Shots

c. Projection

b. Animation

d. Optical Printer

7. What will happen to a movie without special effects?
a. It will draw a lot of moviegoers.

c. It will not be appealing.

b. It will be rich in cinematic appeal.

d. It will not earn popularity.

8. Why do you think George M'elies was called "the magician of
movies"? a. He played the role of a magician in movies several
times.
b. His inventions were made into a movie.
c. He studied magic before he became a movie
maker. d. He accidentally invented special effects
in movies.

19

B.

THE COMING OF THE CROSS
Early Filipinos were pagans. They tro idol and spirits. However, they

believed that a chief and all-powerful God was prevalent. This God was called
Bathala or Maykapal.
Long before the coming of the Spaniards, the Arabs came to the
Philippines and introduced Islam. This religion was already well established in
Mindanao, Visayas, and in some parts of Luzon when the Spaniards came. Until
now, Islam is the religion of the Muslims of Mindanao, and they still write in
Arabics.
With the coming of the Spaniards in the sixteenth century, the Filipinos
became Christians. The first converts were Humabon, the rajah of Cebu, his
family and his court. Soon in all the places which the Spaniards occupied,
Christianity flourished. All of Luzon, most of the Visayan Islands, and portions
of Mindanao were Christianized.
The Muslims of Mindanao refused to be conquered by the Spaniards and
they have remained Muslims up to this day.

154 words

9. The early Filipinos were
a. Protestants

b.Pagans

c. Mohammedan

10. They worshipped
a. God

b. idols and spirits

c.nobody

11. Their powerful god was
a. Allah

b. Bathala

c. Jesus

12. Islam in the Philippines was introduced by the
a. Hindus

b. Chinese

c. Arab

13. Before the coming of the Spaniards, most Filipinos were
a. Christian

b. Muslim

c. pagans

14. Christianity was introduced into the Philippines by the
a. Americans

b. Chinese

c. Spaniards

15. The first converts to Christianity in the Philippines were
a. Rajah Matanda & family

c. MagatSalamat & his family

b. Rajah Humabon & family
20

C.
Did you see that?11 Joe said to his friend Bill.
11 You're a great shooter!" Bill caught the basketball and bounced it
before throwing it again. The ball flew into the net.
"Bill, you never miss!" Joe said admiringly.
"Unless I'm in a real game,11 Bill complained. 11 Then I miss all the time.11
Joe knew that Bill was right. Bill performed much better when he was
having fun with Joe in the school yard than he did when he was playing for
the school team in front of a large crowd.
11 Maybe you just need to practice more,11 Joe suggested.
"But I practice all the time with you!" Bill objected. He shook his
head. "I just can't play well when people are watching me. 11
11 You play well when I'm watching," Joe pointed out.
"That's because I've known you since we were five years old, 11 Bill
said with a smile. "I'm just not comfortable playing when other people are
around." Joe nodded and understood, but he also had an idea. The next day
Joe and Bill met in the school yard again to practice. After a few minutes,
Joe excused himself.
"Practice without me,11 Joe said to his friend. 11 I'll be back in a
minute.11 Joe hurried through the school building, gathering together
whomever he could find-two students, a math teacher, two secretaries, and
a janitor. When Joe explained why he needed them, everyone was happy to
help. Joe reminded the group to stay quiet as they all went toward the
school's basketball court. As Joe had hoped, Bill was still practicing
basketball. He made five baskets in a row without noticing the silent people
standing behind him.
11 Hey, Bill!" Joe called out finally. Bill turned. A look of surprise
came over his face.
11 I just wanted to show you that you could play well with people watching
you,11
Joe said. "Now you' II have nothing to worry about for the next game! 11

321words
"

16. Joe is the ___ of Bill.

a. coach
b. cousin

c. friend
d. MAPEH
teacher

21

17. Which is the correct order of events in the story?
1. Bill told Joe the reason why he missed in a real game.
2. Joe and Bill were practicing in school's basketball court.
3. Bill played basketball well and was surprised when he saw people
around him.
4. Joe secretly invited people to watch Bill playing basketball.
5. Joe told Bill that he has nothing to worry about for the next game.
a. 2-3-1-4-5
b. 2-1-3-4-5
c. 2-1-4-3-5
d. 2-4-1-3-5
18. Why is Bill upset?
a. He plays better in practice than he does during games.
b. The school yard is not a good place to practice.
c. Joe watches him too closely when he plays.
d. His team loses many games.
19.Why does Joe gather a group of people?
a. because he wants more players for his team
b. because he wants to help Bill feel less nervous
c. because he wants to show his talent to them
d. because he wants more people to see the next game
20. What is the best title for this story?
a. Joe Joins the Team
b. Practice Makes Perfect
c. Bill Wins the Big Game
d. Bill's Basketball Problem

22

Pre Test, Grade 8
Most of the kids in school think of Jerry as the class clown, which is
really no cause for wonder. After all, Jerry hardly opens his mouth without
causing everyone to break out into uncontrollable laughter and loud
guffaws. He truly has a great sense of humor and his jokes are simply
hilarious.
Jerry loves to poke fun at himself but never, ever have I heard him
making fun of any of the other kids because of their looks and their
mistakes, In fact, when his friends get carried away and start making
unkind jokes about a classmate or teacher, Jerry would quickly change the
subject with another joke. He never wants anybody getting hurt because of
his clowning around.
But there are other sides of Jerry that people don't usually see. He
never fails to go to Sunday mass and he always makes short visits to the
chapel during his free time.
It's hard to think of this funny guy as having a serious side. But he
often surprises everyone by topping the class in most of the quizzes. He
hardly ever reports to class unprepared for the day's lesson. If the
teacher lets him get away with a joke or two, it's only because he always
knows the answer when he is called upon to recite.
1. Jerry is known in the school as the ------- ·
a. class historian

c. class clown

b. class valedictorian

d. campus crush

2. What does Jerry do during his free time?
a. review for the quiz

c. make short visits to the chapel

b. read hilarious jokes d. make fun of other kids' looks and mistakes
3.
The following statements describe Jerry as kind/sensitive person
except_____.
a. He never makes fun of other kids' looks and mistakes.
b. He changes the subject when his friends make unkind jokes.
c. He never wants anybody to get hurt when he clowns around.
d. He has a great sense of humor.
4. Which of the following statements shows that Jerry is intelligent/studious?
"
a. He tops the class in most of the quizzes.

b. He hardly reports to class unprepared for the day's
lesson.
c. He always knows the answer when he is cal led upon to
recite.
d. all of the above
23

5. What is the most appropriate title for this passage?
a. Jerry: the Class Clown with a Heart
b. Jerry and His Hilarious Jokes
c. Laughing Out Loud with Jerry
d. Joke Time with Jerry
6. What is the author's purpose in writing this selection?
a. to present a person to look up to or emulate
b. to inform people about making jokes
c. to entertain people with jokes
d. to criticize people making unpleasant jokes
7. What should you consider in telling jokes?
a. Do not make fun of others' looks or mistakes.
b. Be sensitive to the reactions or feelings of others.
c. Avoid making unpleasant jokes.
d. all of the above
8. What would you say if you offended someone with your joke?
a. I'm sorry but you are very sensitive.
b. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to offend you.
c. I'm sorry. Did I tell something wrong?
d. I'm sorry but that is true.
B.
SOURCES OF UGHT
Light is given off by luminous bodies. The sun is a luminous body. A candle
light, a lighted fire, a firefly, a glowing electric light-bulb are luminous
bodies.
The sun and the firefly are natural sources of light. The candle flame
and the electric light-bulb are artificial or manmade luminous bodies.
The moon seems to be a luminous body. In reality, it is not. Its silvery
glow is reflected light from the sun.
Many other objects reflect light. We see many different objects reflect
light from natural or artificial light.
Light passes through transparent materials like glasses, cellophane, and
some plastics. Light is, however, reflected by mirrors, diffused by
translucent materials and stopped by an opaque material. Materials
through which no light passes are said to be opaque.

24

1. Light is given off by
bodies.
a. luminous
b. opaque
c. translucent
2. An example of a luminous body is the ____
a. mirror
b. moon
c. sun
3. The sun is a/an
source of light.
a. natural
b. artificial
c. man-made
4. Transparent materials
light to pass through.
a. allow all
b. allow some
c. sometimes allow
light
5. The silvery glow of the moon is only
.
a. reflected
b. artificial
c. natural
Glasses, cellophane, and plastics may be classified
6. as
objects.
a. transparent
b. translucent
c. opaque
7. Materials through which light cannot pass are said to be _____
a. transparent
b. translucent
c. opaque
8. This selection is about
of light.
a. uses
b. sources
c. cost

25

Pre Test. Grade 9
A.
Eight-year-old Johnny was very serious when I called him into my
office at the hospital and explained how he could save his little sister's
life. Mary, aged six, was near death - a victim of disease from which
Johnny had made miraculous recovery only two years earlier. Now, Mary's
only chance was a blood transfusion from someone who has previously
conquered the illness. Since the two children had the same rare blood type,
Johnny would be the ideal donor.
"Johnny," I said, "would you like to give your blood for Mary?"
He hesitated a moment, his lower lip trembling, but I had seen many
people older than Johnny who were a little frightened by the idea of giving
blood, so I thought no more about it. Then he smiled and said, "Sure, Dr.
Morris. I'll give my blood for my sister."
The operation was prepared and the children wheeled in Mary, pale
and thin; Johnny, a robust and almost cherubic. Neither spoke, but when
their eyes met, Johnny smiled broadly.
As Johnny's blood siphoned into Mary's veins, her pale skin began to
turn pink. There was a complete silence as the operation proceeded. But
Johnny spoke in a brave little voice I will never forget.
"Say, Dr. Morris," he said "when do I die?"
It was only then that I realized what that moment's lip trembling
had meant when I talked to Johnny in my office.
He thought that giving his blood to his sister meant giving up his life!
In that brief moment he had made his great decision.
1. Who was sick and needed transfusion?
a. Johnny

c. Mary

b. Johnny's mother

d. Mary's father

2. What made him tremble upon the thought of donating blood?
a. He was going to be sick.

c. He was going to die soon.

b. He was afraid of the needle.

d. He was so young then.

3. What could be the possible ending of the
story? a. The little sister made a miraculous
recovery.

b. The family wasn't able to pay the hospital
bill. c. Dr. Morris did not accept Johnny's
blood.
d. Johnny changed his mind in giving blood for his sister.
26

4. What would have happened if Johnny had not donated his blood to his
sister?
a. Mary would have died.
b. Their parents would have been very angry.
c. The hospital would have sent them all away.
d. The doctor would have forced Johnny to donate his blood.
5. What is the author's purpose in writing this story?
a. He wants to show the boy's heroism.
b. He wants to praise the doctor for the successful operation.
c. He wants to inform people about blood donation.
d. He wants to give hope to the sick and the needy.
6. Which of the following is the most appropriate title for this passage?
a. A Great Decision

c. Brave Johnny

b. Rare Blood Type

d. Ideal Donor

7. As a good sibling like Johnny, which of the following should you do to
save your sister's life? Why? . I would donate my blood because -----a. I want to save my sister's life.
b. Saving her life means risking my own life.
c. Donating blood has a good effect to the donor's health.
d. She has not been a good sister to me.
8. Which of the following does not express love to one's siblings?
a. supporting one's decision
b. spending quality time together
c. extending help without expecting anything in return
d. having heated arguments and a feeling of envy most of the time

27

B.
MOTHER'SLOVE
Aling Elena, a middle-aged woman, is a Metro aide in the city of
Manila. She was left to take care of her three children with the death of
her husband in an accident a year ago. She has to work hard. Rosa, her
oldest child is nine, Jose is seven and Lilia, the youngest, is three. Aling
Elena and her children live in a small house near a busy railroad track.
Aling Elena wakes up early to prepare breakfast and food of her
children for the whole day while she is away. She walks to her place of work
in order to save her fare. The streets assigned to her are always clean for
she is a good worker.
After work, before going home, she goes to the market to buy food
for her children. Her children who wait for her at the doorstep of their
little house run to meet her as soon as they see her coming.
Aling Elena starts to cook their supper as soon as she arrives. After
eating supper, she washes clothes while her children are sleeping. She is
always tired at the end of the day but when she sees her lovely children
she will smile and thank God for them.
Aling Elena sleeps like a log at night for she is always tired. She is
never awakened by the roaring and tooting of passing trains. Neither is she
disturbed by the shaking of her little house as a train passes by. But when
Lilia calls, "Mother" even very faintly during the middle of the night, Aling
Elena will instantly wake up. Only the movement and calls of children can
wake her up from her sound sleep.
1. How does Aling Elena earn her living?
a. by selling

b. by sweeping the streets c. by going to an office

2. What is Aling Elena's status?
a. an orphan

b. a widow

c. a spinster

3. Where does Aling Elena's family live?
a. in the squatters area
b. by the seashore

c. by the rai Iroad track

28

4. How does she feel when she sees her children?
b.
a. irritable
impatient
c.happy
5. Why does she sleep like a log at night?
a. She is tired of living.
c. She is tired of her
children.

b. She is tired from work.
6. What can only wake her up at night?
a. the noise of the train
b. her children's call
7. What kind of mother do you think is she?
a. cruel

b. loving

c. patriotic

8. What does the selection tell about mothers?
a. Mother's love is the greatest.
b. It is the duty of mothers to feed and take care of
their children.
c. Some mothers are lucky, some are not.

29

Pre Test. Grade 10
A.
While doing his work in the rubbish dump, Antonio saw an old woman
who accidentally stepped on a rusty nail. Swiftly, Antonio removed the nail
that pierced in her foot and ripped up his shirt to wrap around the old
woman's wound.
"What a good heart you have! Take this wooden box as a token of my
appreciation," said the old woman as she handed in the box to Antonio.
"Lola, you don't have to give this to me," Antonio replied returning
the wooden box.
"Good-hearted person like you must be rewarded. This is not an
ordinary box. Touch it gently and it will give out the amount that you need,"
the old woman instructed.
Before the old woman disappeared, she warned Antonio not to use
money from the wooden box in worthless things because this would be the
cause of his death.
Having known the secret of the magical wooden box, Antonio's sister
Maria gently touched the box while Antonio was in the dumpsite. She took
out plenty of money which she squandered in going out with her friends and
other useless stuffs.
After few days, Antonio was lying on his bed very ill.
"You are drunk again, Maria. Please stop wasting money from the
wooden box. The old woman warned me not to use it for things of no value
or else I will die," Antonio appealed to his sister but then again Maria just
ignored him and got more money from the box.
Not long after, Antonio was brought to the hospital by their neighbors.
Maria prayed solemnly for his brother and eventually she realized her
mistakes.
1. Why did the old woman give Antonio a reward?
a. He removed a rusty nai I that pierced on her foot.
b. He gave the old woman all the junk items that he collected.
c. He ruined hist-shirt to be used as bandage for the old woman's wound.
d. both a and c
2. Determine the correct order of events as they happened in the story.
A. First, Antonio helped an old woman who accidentally stepped
on a rusty nail.

B. Finally, Maria realized her mistakes after her brother was brought to
the
hospital.
C. Then, Antonio was rewarded and warned by the old woman.
D. Afterwards, she squandered the money from the box.
30

E. Next, Maria discovered the secret of the magical wooden box.
a.A-C-E-B-D
b.A-C-E-D-B
c. A-C-B-E-D
d. A-B-C-E-D
3. How did the old woman express her gratitude to Antonio?
a. by making him the big boss in the dumpsite
b. by simply saying "Thank you"
c. by giving him the magical wooden box
d. by giving him grocery items
4. It can be inferred in the story that the old woman was _______..
a. a fairy
b. rich

c. a witch
d. antique collector

5. Why did Antonio become very ill?
a. Antonio didn't eat nutritious food.
b. His work in the rubbish dump made him
sick. c. Antonio accidentally stepped on a
rusty nail.
d. His sister Maria squandered the money from the wooden box.
6. What is the most appropriate title for this story?
a. Cash from Trash
c. The Not-So-Good Fairy
b. The Magical Wooden Box

d. Lucky Waste Picker

7. Which of the following is the writer's intent in writing the
story? a. to value family over money
b. to show that good act is rewarded
c. to present the difficult life in the
dumpsite d. both a and b
8. If you were to choose between money and a family member, which is
worth choosing? Why?
a. Money because it can buy everything in life.
b. Family because the love of a family is life's greatest blessing.
c. Money because it brings lasting happiness.
d. Family because I can take money from them.
8.
TALES FROM THE LAND OF SALT-LINGAYEN. PANGASINAN
Lingayen comes from the word "lingawen" which in the local dialect
means "to look back". Legends say that there used to be a giant tree in the
middle of the town and everyone who passed it just had to look back. The
big tree is nowhere to be found as the gods have uprooted it.

Lingayen is also the locale of the Limahong channel-a huge man made
channel that they say, the pirate Limahong dug with his hands to escape
the Spaniards. Contrary to popular belief, Limahong wasn't a pirate.
Limahong actually came to migrate from China, bringing with him his five
sons-Bengson,
31

Limson, Ungson, Sison, and Tuason. If you notice, most of the families that
live in Pangasinan have those last names.
The local government is finally realizing that there's a lot to be said
about our town. We are part of Philippine history-from the Spanish times
to the Martial Law era. Back in World War 2, Lingayen Gulf was used for
mass landings by the defenders. That's why we have a war museum there
with the planes and tanks on display. The Lingayen airstrip was built by the
Americans during the liberation of Luzon back in 1945. It has rarely been
used since-well, it was used by some members of the Lopez and Osmena
family to escape Marcos' Martial Law persecutions. There were talks about
fixing it up so that it can be used by commercial and personal fights but
that hasn't come to fruition yet.
The Capitol building (also known as the Urduja building) has recently
received a makeover and has opened its doors to the public for viewing. We
recommend that you take the entire tour and even ask to go to the roof
deck. The view is spectacular! On one side you see the beach, on the other
hand, you can see a paranoramic view of the town and on the other side you
see the airport.
1. What does lingawen mean?
a.to look ahead
c. to look forward
b.to look back
d. to look side by side
2. The capitol building is known as what?
a. Lingayen building
c. Urduja building
b. Pangasinan building
d. Limahong building
3. A huge man made channel
a. Limahong channel
c. Urduja channel
b. Lingayen channel
d. Pangasinan channel
4. Limahong is actually a
a. pirate
b. conqueror
c. migrant
5. This was used for the mass landings by the defenders

d. native
Filipino

a. Lingayen Gulf b. Limahong Gulf c. Pangasinan Gulf d. Urduja Gulf
6. How many sons did Limahong have?
a. three
b. four
c. five
d.six
7. What museum displays tanks and planes used in the World War 2?
a. National
Museum
c. Pangasinan Museum
b. War Museum
d. Li ngayen Museum

What is the capital of Pangasi
8. nan?
a.Dagupan

b.Urdaneta

c. Lingayen

32

d.
Mangaldan

